Simple Queue

In a simple queue, insertion takes place at the rear and removal occurs at the front.
It strictly follows the FIFO (First in First out) rule.
----TR----
Basit Sıra
Basit bir kuyrukta, yerleştirme arkada gerçekleşir ve çıkarma işlemi önde gerçekleşir.
Kesinlikle FIFO (İlk Giren İlk Çıkar) kuralını takip eder.


Circular Queue

In a circular queue, the last element points to the first element making a circular link.

The main advantage of a circular queue over a simple queue is better memory utilization.
If the last position is full and the first position is empty, we can insert an element in the first position.
This action is not possible in a simple queue.

----TR----
Dairesel Sıra

Dairesel bir kuyrukta, son öğe, dairesel bir bağlantı oluşturan ilk öğeye işaret eder.
Dairesel bir kuyruğun basit bir kuyruğa göre temel avantajı daha iyi bellek kullanımıdır.
Son konum doluysa ve ilk konum boşsa, ilk konuma bir eleman ekleyebiliriz.
Bu işlem basit bir kuyrukta mümkün değildir.


Priority Queue

A priority queue is a special type of queue in which each element is associated with a priority and is served according to its priority.
If elements with the same priority occur, they are served according to their order in the queue.
Insertion occurs based on the arrival of the values and removal occurs based on priority.

----TR----
Öncelik Kuyruğu

Öncelik sırası, her bir öğenin bir öncelik ile ilişkilendirildiği ve önceliğine göre sunulduğu özel bir kuyruk türüdür.
Aynı önceliğe sahip öğeler ortaya çıkarsa, bunlar kuyruktaki sıralarına göre sunulur.
Ekleme, değerlerin gelişine bağlı olarak gerçekleşir ve çıkarma önceliğe göre gerçekleşir.


Deque (Double Ended Queue)

In a double ended queue, insertion and removal of elements can be performed from either from the front or rear.
Thus, it does not follow the FIFO (First In First Out) rule.
----TR----
Deque (Çift Uçlu Sıra)
Çift uçlu bir kuyrukta, elemanların takılması ve çıkarılması önden veya arkadan yapılabilir.
Bu nedenle FIFO (İlk Giren İlk Çıkar) kuralına uymaz.